Friday, August  9, 2024

# Tasks for today

**Game Engine:**
  - [X] Plan out the scene system
  - [ ] Implement the new engine design
    - [ ] Implement the renderer system
    - [ ] Implement the Engine class with virtual methods
    - [ ] Implement the entry point class for the game
  - [ ] Investigate whether its better to use GLFW or SDL, or another windowing system.


# Game Engine

## Scenes 

The Scenes are objects that belong to a project. Each project will have an entry scene, which will be the scene the game starts on. 

I would like to give the possibility to the user of the editor to attach a script to a scene. This script would have, for example, the following functions:
```
#include "Engine/core/scene.h"

void update() {

}

void physicsUpdate() {

}

void onInput() {

}
```

I was thinking of having for each scene a class inherited from the Scene class. This way i can have the update, physicsUpdate and onInput methods declared as virtual on the Scene class, and defined them on its child classes.
  - The problem with this solution is the instantiation of each different class. I don't know how to add each scene to the scene manager. I would have a file specifying each of the scenes created, but from this file i should be able to instantiate each scene. 
  - The advantage of this solution is that each of the scenes will have access to the objects that are part of that scene.


Other possible solution would be to define callbacks to the functions we want the user to have in the script. This callbacks would be assigned to each scene on creation.
  - I don't know how to get a pointer to this user defined functions. Also i don't have access to the objects that belong to the scene.
  - The instantiation is easier.
  - [Bytecode design pattern](http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/bytecode.html)

**Some suggestions found on the internet on this subject:**
  * Learn about interpreter design
  * See an existing solution, like Sol2 in lua.

**Unreal Engine way of using C++ as scripting language:** [source](https://romeroblueprints.blogspot.com/2020/10/the-uclass-macro.html)
  The UCLASS() macro is used to indicate that a C++ class will be part of Unreal's Reflection system. This is necessary for the C++ class to be recognized by the Unreal Engine editor. Another advantage of using UCLASS() is that you can use Unreal Engine's memory management system in the C++ class.

  The compilation of an Unreal C++ project happens in two phases. In the first phase, UnrealHeaderTool (UHT) reads the C++ headers files looking for Unreal macros and generates the necessary code that will replace the macros. In the second phase, the C++ compiler compiles the resulting code.

  The UCLASS() macro is placed on the line above the definition of the C++ class.
  
**Live++ implementation of C++ hot reloading:** [link](https://liveplusplus.tech/index.html)
  Live++ compiles your code changes in the background and directly patches the machine code of the running executable. 
