Wednesday, July 31, 2024

# Graphics Engine

Tasks for today:
- [ ] Finish the camera system
- [ ] Load a model from an .obj file
- [ ] Make an event dispatcher system


## Camera System


## Event Dispatcher

How can i delete a handler? The events handlers can be a vector of unique pointers to event handlers. I want this event handler to be capable of destroying whenever i destroy the original class. 

For the deletion i can instead use shared_ptrs and check in the input handler class whether this pointer is unique. If its unique i destroy it. If its not then continue.

I will store all the event handlers inside a linked list for efficient insertion and deletion.

Change of plans. Since i want to pass as argument a member function i will have to do something else.

Let's review the process for the handling of events:

1. Event occurs. Let's say that it's a key press.
2. The InputHandler polls that event.
3. The event polled gets delivered to every subscribed function

The problem comes at step 3. If we want to use a member function we need a different approach.
I was reviewing some design patterns to approach this problem. One of them was the observer pattern.
The problem with the observer pattern was that every class that needed to subscribe to some event will have to be inherited from an abstract Observer class. I would like to avoid this for now.

Other approach that i've seen was the implementation of a "Delegate class" or as i would call it "Dispatcher class". This class is the responsible of converting any "free" (non-member) function and member functions into a valid callback to pass as argument to the inputHandler.

The dispatcher class will have a pointer to the instance of the class the target function is member of, and have a public method to invoke this function.

Thinking it again, it shouldn't be called dispatcher. This class transforms a member function into a callback for the events. It might as well be called FunctionWrapper or Wrapper. 
